---
layout: post
title: "Why Only Almost?"
date: 2020-09-24
---

Welcome to my blog, *Almost Surely* <br />
Admittedly, I am a complete noob when it comes to web devlopment and I will probably never excel in this domain. However, thanks to <a href="http://jmcglone.com/guides/github-pages/#css">this</a> excellent post by Hank Quinlan, I was able to set up this website. Thanks Hank!

The name of the blog calls for some explanation. The term *Almost Surely* stems from probability theory where one says an event[^1] happens almost surely if the event happens with probability 1. Why use the term *almost* surely for an event that is guranteed to happen (i.e has a probability of 1)? why not just say the event *surely* happens? The reason is that sometimes we would like to allow an event to happen with probability 1 even when there are possible excepetions for the event. The possible excepections are actually impossible as their total probability is zero. As an example, assume a disk shaped dart board and assume I throw a dart at the board. Let's say I am talented enough to always hit the board so in this case I will *surely* hit the board. Now assume I drill a few small holes randomly on the board. The holes are so small they are invisible. I now add the rule that hitting the hole doesn't count as hitting the board. You would agree that since the holes are so small, there is a zero chance that I will precisely hit them, however, if I aim at the board, hitting the holes are an exception for the event of my hitting the board. Since there is a zero chance of hitting the holes, we can say I will *almost surely* hit the board.

$$frac{1}{n} sum_{i=1}^{n}$$

I cannot commit on the nature of the blog and I remain the right to write on whatever comes to my mind! I will pledge that I will only write about what I almost sure about.

<p font-size: 1.2em>
[^1]: In probability theory, the term *event* has a slightly technical definition. For this purpose just think of an event as the <a href="https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/event"> dictionary definition</a> - *a thing that happens*. 
</p>
